The Project Gutenberg eBook of Bobby and Betty with the workers, by
Katharine Elizabeth Dopp

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Bobby and Betty with the workers

Author: Katharine Elizabeth Dopp

Illustrator: Mary Spoor Brand

Release Date: March 21, 2023 [eBook #70328]

Language: English

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson, Lisa Corcoran and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BOBBY AND BETTY WITH THE
WORKERS ***






[Illustration]




                             BOBBY AND BETTY
                             WITH THE WORKERS

                                   _By_
                         KATHARINE ELIZABETH DOPP
    _Formerly Instructor and Lecturer in the Extension Division of the
                          University of Chicago_

                             _Illustrated by_
                             MARY SPOOR BRAND

                              [Illustration]

                          RAND McNALLY & COMPANY
                             CHICAGO NEW YORK

                            _Copyright, 1923_
                       BY KATHARINE ELIZABETH DOPP
                           All rights reserved
                             Edition of 1928

                              [Illustration]

                             Made in U. S. A.




[Illustration]

THE CONTENTS


                                                        PAGE

    THE MILKMAN                                            9

    THE MILKMAN AND HIS HORSE                             10

    THE ICEMAN                                            13

    MAKING APPLE PIES                                     17

    MOTHER WANTS A CHERRY PIE                             20

    AT THE BAKER’S SHOP                                   24

    GUESS WHAT IS IN MY POCKET                            29

    A TALK WITH FATHER AND MOTHER                         33

    COLLY-MOLLY-PUFF AND THE MUFFIN MAN                   38

    WHAT SHALL I BUY WITH MY PENNY?                       45

    FATHER TELLS A STORY                                  49

    AT THE GROCERY STORE                                  54

    THE GROCERY BOY COMES WITH THE GROCERIES              61

    THE BANANA MAN                                        66

    THE FRUIT AND VEGETABLE MAN                           70

    BOBBY AND BETTY GO TO THE MEAT MARKET                 74

    WHAT BOBBY AND BETTY FOUND IN THEIR BOOKS             80

    BOBBY AND BETTY MAKE SHOES FOR DOLLY                  84

    BOBBY AND BETTY GO TO THE SHOEMAKER’S SHOP            88

    PLAYING SHOEMAKER                                     93

    BOBBY AND BETTY GO TO THE SHOE STORE                  99

    MOTHER AND BETTY GO TO THE DRESSMAKER’S SHOP         105

    BOBBY GOES WITH FATHER TO THE TAILOR’S SHOP          109

    NEW CLOTHES FOR BOBBY AND BETTY                      113

    WORK AND PLAY                                        119

    THE SCISSORS-GRINDER                                 122

    MOTHER BUYS BETTY A NEW HAT                          125

    FATHER BUYS BOBBY A NEW HAT                          129

    BOBBY LEARNS WHY MEN LIFT THEIR HATS                 133

    THE LAUNDRY MAN                                      137

    AT THE BARBER’S SHOP                                 139

    THE BROOM MAN                                        143

    THE BALLOON MAN                                      148

    BOBBY AND BETTY FOLLOW THE HAND-ORGAN MAN            152

    WHY MOTHER ’PHONED TO THE POLICEMAN                  158

    THE POLICEMAN TAKES BOBBY AND BETTY HOME             161

    MOTHER TALKS WITH BOBBY AND BETTY                    165

    THE NEWSBOY                                          170

    THE POSTMAN                                          173

    HOW BOBBY AND BETTY EARNED MONEY                     177

    WHAT BOBBY AND BETTY SOLD TO THE OLD-CLOTHES MAN     182

    AT THE HARDWARE STORE                                188

    _Suggestions to Teachers_                            193

[Illustration]




BOBBY AND BETTY WITH THE WORKERS




THE MILKMAN


Bobby and Betty drink milk.

The milkman brings them milk every day.

He leaves two quart bottles at the back door.

He never forgets to bring the milk.

He never stays away when it storms.


_For study and play_:

Find the milkman.

Find Bobby and Betty.

    Round about, round about applety-pie,
    Baby loves milk and so do I.
    Up, Mother, up, and fill us a cup,
    And baby and I will drink it all up.

              —Adapted from an old rime




[Illustration]

THE MILKMAN AND HIS HORSE


The milkman has a wise horse.

The horse knows where to stop.

He knows when to stand still.

He knows when to go on.

He doesn’t try to run away.

The horse helps the milkman.

The milkman takes bottles of milk from his wagon.

Sometimes he takes out quart bottles.

Sometimes he takes out pint bottles.

He leaves milk at the back door.

He takes empty bottles away.

He puts the empty bottles in the milk wagon.

At the end of the week he knocks at the door.

Then Mother pays him for the milk.


_For study and play_:

How many quarts of milk does the milkman leave at your door every day?

[Illustration]

How many quarts of milk does the milkman leave at your door every week?

How much do you have to pay the milkman each week?

Name the days of the week. Count them.

How many pints make one quart?

    Milkman, milkman, where have you been?
    In Buttermilk Channel up to my chin.
    I spilt my milk, and spoilt my clothes,
    And got a long icicle hung to my nose.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE ICEMAN


Mother keeps milk in the ice box.

She likes to keep it cool and sweet.

The iceman passes every day with a big ice wagon.

When Mother wants ice, Betty puts up a card.

When the iceman sees it, he cries, “Whoa! whoa!”

The big horses stop.

The iceman jumps down from his wagon.

He brings in a big block of ice.

He puts it in the ice box, and Mother gives him a ticket.

The iceman goes back to his wagon.

He jumps in and drives away.

Once Bobby and Betty ran after the ice wagon.

Mother saw them and called them back.

“Don’t run after the ice wagon,” said Mother. “Play you have an ice
wagon, Bobby. Hitch Queen to your cart.”

[Illustration]


_For study and play_:

    I was some ice,
    So white and so nice,
    But which nobody tasted;
    And so it was wasted,
    All that good ice!

               —EDWARD LEAR


THE ICE MAN

Composed by Children

    The ice wagon rattles down the street,
      Thumpity, bumpity, bump!
    It always comes in the summer’s heat,
      Thumpity, bumpity, bump!

    The ice picks clank and make such a noise,
      Clinkity, clankity, clank!
    Down the street run the girls and the boys,
      Clinkity, clankity, clank!

    Here is a card for seventy-five pounds,
      Whoa there, Jerry and Joe!
    Chippety chop, how the ice pick sounds,
      Whoa there, Jerry and Joe!

    Now he comes in at the kitchen door,
      Trampity, trampity, tramp!
    Dripping water all over the floor,
      Trampity, trampity, tramp!

    Then he goes in his wagon yellow,
      Gee up, Jerry and Joe!
    The iceman is a jolly fellow,
      Gee up, Jerry and Joe!

            —Grade III, North School,
             Hinsdale, Illinois

    Snow, snow faster,
    Come again at Easter.




[Illustration]

MAKING APPLE PIES


Did you ever make a pie?

Bobby and Betty make pies.

Mother gives them little pieces of pie crust.

They lay the pie crust on the bread-board.

They roll it with a rolling-pin.

They put the pie crust on little pie tins and pat it down.

Then Mother gives each of them a nice red apple.

Bobby pares his apple.

Betty pares her apple.

They quarter the apples.

They core them.

They slice them and fill their pies.

They cover them with pie crust.

They trim off the edges.

Mother puts the pies in the oven.

When they are baked, Mother takes them out.

Bobby and Betty have them at dinner.

[Illustration]


_For study and play_:

    Roll a pie crust,
    Roll a pie crust,
      With a rolling-pin.
    Lift a pie crust,
    Lay it gently
      On a little tin.

    Pare an apple,
    Core an apple,
      Slice it very thin.
    Put the top crust
    On the pie.
      Then the edges trim.

    B is cook Betty,
      She’s baking a pie
    With ten or twelve apples
      All piled up on high.

    Pippin, pippin, fly away,
    Give me one another day.




[Illustration]

MOTHER WANTS A CHERRY PIE


One day Mother said, “I want a cherry pie and I haven’t time to make it
today.”

“Let me make it,” said Bobby.

“Let me make it,” said Betty.

“We won’t make a pie today,” said Mother. “We will buy one. You may go to
the baker’s shop and buy a cherry pie.”

“Good!” said Betty.

“Come on,” said Bobby.

“Wait,” said Mother. “You cannot buy a pie without money.”

“That’s so,” said Bobby. “I forgot the money. I was going to be like
Simple Simon.”

“Simple Simon couldn’t buy a pie,” said Betty. “He didn’t have a penny.”

“Can we buy a pie for a penny, Mother?” asked Bobby.

“Oh, no, Bobby. Pies cost more than they did when Simple Simon lived.”

“How much does a cherry pie cost, Mother?” asked Betty.

“Twenty cents,” answered Mother.

“Twenty cents!” cried Bobby.

[Illustration]

“Yes,” said Mother. “Here are two dimes. Bobby, you may carry the money
this time.”

“Thank you, Mother,” said Bobby. “Come, Betty, let’s go.”


_For study and play_:

    Simple Simon met a pieman,
    Going to the fair;
    Says Simple Simon to the pieman,
    “Let me taste your ware.”

    Says the pieman to Simple Simon,
    “Show me first your penny.”
    Says Simple Simon to the pieman,
    “Indeed, I haven’t any.”

    “Can she make a cherry pie, Billy boy, Billy boy?
    Can she make a cherry pie, Charming Billy?”

    “She can make a cherry pie, quick as a cat can wink its eye,
    She’s a young thing and cannot leave her mother.”

    Up in the tree cherries I see;
    Some are for you, some are for me.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

AT THE BAKER’S SHOP


Soon Bobby and Betty were at the baker’s door.

They opened the latch and walked in.

“We shall have to wait until it is our turn,” said Bobby.

“How many are ahead of us?” asked Betty.

“Let’s count them,” whispered Bobby.

Bobby and Betty counted very softly, “One, two, three, four, five, six.”

“There are six ahead of us,” said Bobby.

While they were waiting, Bobby and Betty looked at the show-case.

“That’s a chocolate cake,” said Bobby.

“See those chocolate cookies,” said Betty.

“Where are the pies?” whispered Bobby.

“Up there,” said Betty. “Don’t you see them on that shelf?”

“Oh,” said Bobby. “I see them now.”

“It’s our turn next,” whispered Betty.

“What will you have little boy?” asked the baker.

“A cherry pie, please,” said Bobby.

“Here is a nice one,” said the baker. “It is just out of the oven.”

“How much is it?” asked Bobby.

“Eighteen cents,” answered the baker.

“Mother gave me twenty cents,” said Bobby.

“Pies are eighteen cents today,” said the baker. “What next?”

“That’s all Mother told us to buy,” said Bobby.

“Eighteen, twenty cents,” said the baker. “Here is your change. Is the
little girl your sister?”

“Yes, sir,” answered Bobby.

“Good day,” said the baker. “Who is next?”

“Good day,” said Bobby and Betty.

“Let me carry the pie, Bobby,” said Betty.

Betty took the pie, and Bobby held the pennies in his hand.

“Why don’t you buy some chocolate cookies?” asked Betty.

“I don’t know,” answered Bobby.

“Please, Bobby, please buy some chocolate cookies!”

Bobby looked at the pennies.

He looked at the baker.

The baker was busy.

So Bobby put the pennies in his pocket

Bobby and Betty then left the baker’s shop and took the pie home to
Mother.

[Illustration]


_For study and play_:

    To market, to market, to buy a plum cake;
    Home again, home again, ne’er one baked.

    The baker is dead, and all his men,
    And we must go to market again.

    To market, to market, to buy a plum bun;
    Home again, home again, market is done.

    If all the world was apple pie,
      And all the sea was ink,
    And all the trees were bread and cheese,
      What would we have for drink?

Why does a baker wear a cap? To cover his head.




[Illustration]

GUESS WHAT IS IN MY POCKET


Bobby and Betty went straight home and gave the pie to Mother.

“Guess what is in my pocket!” said Bobby.

“What can it be?” asked Mother.

Bobby jingled the pennies.

“Pennies,” guessed Mother.

“You guessed right,” said Bobby. “Guess how I got them?”

“Did you find them on the way home?” asked Mother.

“No,” said Bobby. “Guess again.”

“Did the baker give you some change?” asked Mother.

“You guessed right this time,” said Bobby. “Here are your pennies.”

“Thank you,” said Mother. “You did right to bring me the change.”

“We wanted to buy some chocolate cookies,” said Betty.

“The baker has some nice cookies in his show case,” said Bobby.

“You may each have a penny,” said Mother.

“Oh, thank you, thank you!” said Bobby and Betty.

“May I buy a chocolate cookie with my penny?” asked Bobby.

“Yes, Bobby dear,” said Mother. “The penny is yours. You may buy what
you please.”

“May I buy a chocolate cookie with my penny?” asked Betty.

“Yes, Betty,” answered Mother. “It is your penny.”

“Was it mine when the baker gave it to Bobby?” asked Betty.

“No, dear,” answered Mother. “The penny was not yours.”

“Whose pennies were they when the baker gave them to Bobby?” asked Betty.

“I know,” said Bobby. “They were Mother’s pennies. That’s why we had to
bring them to her.”

[Illustration]


_For study and play_:

    There is nothing so kingly as kindness,
    And nothing so royal as truth.

                               —ALICE CARY

    I do like pie,
    Any kind of pie,
    Apple, cherry,
    Or strawberry,
    Custard, mince,
    Prune, or quince;
    But the pie I like the best,
    Better far than all the rest,
    Is the pie
    Called pumpkin pie;
    I do like pie,
    Pumpkin pie!

                —SELECTED

    Heetum peetum penny pie,
    Populorum gigum gie,
    North, south, east, west,
    Pumpkin pie I like the best.




[Illustration]

A TALK WITH FATHER AND MOTHER


At dinner Father said, “I like cherry pie.”

“I like it,” said Mother.

“So do I,” said Bobby.

“We are like blackbirds,” said Betty.

“How do you make that out?” asked Father.

“Blackbirds they love cherry pie,” said Betty.

“When did you learn that old song?” asked Father.

“Last night,” answered Betty. “It’s in my book.”

“There’s a pieman in my book,” said Bobby. “Simple Simon met him. Simple
Simon wanted to buy a pie, but he didn’t have a penny.”

“It takes money to buy a pie,” said Father. “Simple Simon learned that.”

“If I meet a pieman, I’ll buy a pie,” said Betty. “I’ll give him my penny
for a pie.”

“Are there any piemen now?” asked Bobby.

“Piemen do not walk the streets now,” answered Father. “They sell pies
and cakes in shops.”

“Is the baker a pieman?” asked Bobby.

“We don’t call him a pieman,” said Father, “but he makes and sells pies.”

“The baker sells bread, too,” said Betty. “He sells rolls and buns.”

“Why does the baker wear a white coat?” asked Bobby.

“He wants to keep clean,” said Mother. “He wants to keep everything in
his shop nice and clean.”

“Bakers used to wear white aprons,” said Father. “Bakers and piemen
always wore clean white aprons.”

[Illustration]

“Where is the baker’s oven?” asked Betty. “I didn’t see it.”

“It is in his kitchen,” answered Mother.

“He must have a big oven,” said Betty.

“He has,” said Mother. “And he has a long wooden shovel to take the bread
from the oven.”

“I’d like to be a baker,” said Bobby. “I’d like to have a baker’s shop
and a great big oven. I’d like to make pies and cakes and muffins and
bread and buns.”

“Let’s play we have a baker’s shop,” said Betty. “Let’s play we are
baking bread in an oven. Let’s take the bread from the oven with a long
wooden shovel.”

So Bobby and Betty played they were bakers. They made an oven with their
blocks. And they made mud pies and little cakes and put them in their
oven.


_For study and play_:

    Pat it here, and pat it there,
      What a dainty prize!
    Bake it on a shingle—
      Nice mud pies!

    King Pippin built a fine new hall,
    Pastry and pie crust were the wall;
    Windows made of black pudding and white,
    Slates were pancakes, you ne’er saw the like.

    Blackbirds they love cherry pie,
    Quick they eat and off they fly.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

COLLY-MOLLY-PUFF AND THE MUFFIN MAN


After dinner Bobby and Betty played with baby.

They played “Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake, baker’s man.”

Then Bobby said, “Let’s give baby a ride.”

“Let’s do it,” said Betty. “Let’s give him a ride to the baker’s shop on
his rocking horse.”

So they put baby on the rocking horse and gave him a nice ride.

Three times baby rode to the baker’s shop before Mother came to put him
to bed.

Then Bobby and Betty went to the bookcase and took out their Mother Goose
books.

“See, Father,” said Betty. “This is the pieman.”

“I see,” said Father. “That is Colly-Molly-Puff.”

“What did you say, Father?” asked Betty.

“Say it again, please,” said Bobby.

“Colly-Molly-Puff! Colly-Molly-Puff!” repeated Father.

“Colly-Molly-Puff! Colly-Molly-Puff!” repeated Bobby and Betty.

“That’s a funny name,” said Betty.

“Is that the pieman’s real name?” asked Bobby.

“No,” answered Father. “It’s a nickname. Long ago the pieman was called
Colly-Molly-Puff.”

“Were all the piemen called Colly-Molly-Puff?” asked Betty.

“Not all,” answered Father. “One was called Tiddy-doll and another was
called Gingerbread Harry.”

“What did Tiddy-doll and Gingerbread Harry sell long ago?” asked Betty.

“Cakes and pies,” answered Father. “All these piemen went up and down the
streets calling out their wares.”

“Did they sell bread, Father?” asked Bobby. “Did they sell muffins and
rolls?”

“No,” answered Father. “They sold cakes and pies. The muffin man went up
and down the streets selling muffins and rolls.”

“I know the muffin man,” said Betty. “Here he is. See!”

[Illustration]

“He is Colly-Molly-Puff’s brother,” said Father.

“Were they real brothers?” asked Bobby.

“No,” answered Father. “They were called brothers because one sold bread
and the other sold pies.”

“I wish they were here now,” said Bobby.

“Let’s play they are,” said Betty. “I’ll be the muffin man.”

“Good!” cried Bobby. “I’ll be Colly-Molly-Puff.”

“O Daddy!” cried Betty. “I’m the muffin man.”

“I’m Colly-Molly-Puff, Daddy.”

“Perhaps Mother will dress you up,” said Father.

“That will be fun!” cried Bobby and Betty.

When Mother came in, she helped them dress as Colly-Molly-Puff and the
muffin man. Then Father showed them how to call out their buns and
muffins and cakes and pies.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]


_For study and play_:

    Ride a cock horse to the baker’s shop,
        To see what baby can buy.
    A nickel white loaf and a nickel brown loaf,
        And a ten-cent apple pie.

    Buy muffins, nice muffins,
    Nice muffins, O!

    One a penny buns! Two a penny buns!
    One a penny, two a penny, hot cross buns.

    If you have no daughters,
    Pray give them to your sons.
    But if you have no little elves,
    You must eat them all yourselves.

    One a penny poker! Two a penny tongs!
    Three a penny fire irons, hot cross buns.

    Nice gingerbread, spice gingerbread,
    Four and twenty lumps of gingerbread for a sixpence.
    Come and buy! Come and buy!
        Buy gingerbread!

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

WHAT SHALL I BUY WITH MY PENNY?


One night at dinner Bobby said, “I haven’t spent my penny yet.”

“I haven’t spent mine,” said Betty.

“Mother, when may we go to the baker’s shop and buy chocolate cookies?”
asked Bobby.

“I am going to the grocery store tomorrow,” said Mother. “You and Bobby
may go with me.”

“Perhaps I’ll buy something at the grocery store,” said Bobby.

“Perhaps I’ll buy a banana,” said Betty.

“Perhaps I’ll buy a big plum,” said Bobby.

“Perhaps I’ll buy a pear,” said Betty. “I like pears. I like them better
than bananas.”

“Oh, I know what I’m going to buy,” said Bobby. “I’m going to buy a
lollipop.”

“Perhaps I’ll buy a lollipop,” said Betty.

“You make me think of a story,” said Father.

[Illustration]

“What is the story about?” asked Bobby.

“It’s about a little boy who found a penny,” said Father. “The boy didn’t
know how to spend it.”

“Tell us the story,” said Betty.

“Oh, do,” said Bobby.

“Please, Daddy,” said Betty.

“Help Mother with the dishes,” said Father. “Then I will tell you the
story.”


_For study and play_:

How many oranges make a dozen? How many in a half dozen?

Name things you buy of the groceryman by the dozen.

What does the baker sell by the dozen?

[Illustration]

    Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers;
    A peck of pickled peppers Peter Piper picked;
    If Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers,
    Where’s the peck of pickled peppers Peter Piper picked?


_Riddles_:

    Humpty dumpty sat on the wall,
    Humpty dumpty had a great fall;
    All the king’s oxen and all the king’s men
    Cannot put Humpty dumpty together again.

                                    _An egg_

    What is as white as snow,
    As green as grass,
    As red as blood,
    And as black as a hat?

          _A common black cherry_




[Illustration]

FATHER TELLS A STORY


“The dishes are washed,” said Bobby.

“Yes, Father,” said Betty. “They are washed and wiped and put away.”

“Then I’ll tell you the story,” said Father.

“What’s the name of the story, Father?” asked Betty.

“What shall I do with this penny?” answered Father.

Bobby and Betty drew up their chairs and Father told them this story:

“Once upon a time, there was a very good little boy, who always minded
his mother.

“One morning his mother said to him, ‘Take the broom and go and sweep the
steps.’

“Now the little boy did not wait for his mother to tell him again. He
took the broom and went out and began to sweep the steps.

“When he was sweeping, he heard a noise.

“He looked all around to see what it was, and what do you think he found?

[Illustration]

“A penny! and it was on the step he had been sweeping.

“‘O Mother, Mother!’ called the little boy. ‘See what I have found!’

“‘A penny!’ said his mother. ‘You have been a good boy. You may have this
penny for your very own.’

“‘Oh, thank you, thank you!’ said the little boy, and he went on with the
sweeping.

“While he was sweeping, the little boy thought, ‘What shall I do with
this penny?’

“‘I have half a mind to buy some dates. But no, I should have to throw
away the stones.’

“‘I will buy some apples. Oh, no, I will not, for I should have to throw
away the cores.’

“‘I will buy some nuts. Oh, no, for I should have to throw away the
shells.’

“‘What shall I buy then? I will buy some figs.’

“And so the little boy went to the grocery store and bought a penny’s
worth of figs.”

“Is that all?” asked Bobby.

“That is all for this time,” said Father.

“That’s a nice story,” said Betty. “I’m glad the boy’s mother let him
have the penny.”

“So am I,” said Bobby. “I don’t believe that little boy had many pennies
to spend.”


_Questions to answer_:

What part of a banana is thrown away?

What part of a potato is thrown away?

What part of a turnip is thrown away?

What part of an egg is thrown away?

What part of a nut is thrown away?

Where do you put the things that are thrown away?

Why do we have garbage cans? Where do we keep them?

What does the garbage man do? Are you glad there are garbage men to take
away the garbage?

Make a little song to thank the garbage man for helping us keep things
nice and clean.


_Riddles_:

    A little house full of meat,
    No door to go in and eat.

                         _A nut_

    Four divisions in a casket;
    There’s a leaf in every basket.

                        _Walnut_




[Illustration]

AT THE GROCERY STORE


Bobby and Betty were up early next morning.

“We are going to the grocery store today,” said Betty when she came down
stairs.

“Hurrah!” cried Bobby. “I’ll spend my penny. Here it is. I’ll put it in
my coat pocket now.”

“Mine is in my shopping bag,” said Betty.

After the breakfast dishes were put away, Mother sat down to write.

“I know what Mother is writing,” said Betty.

“What is Mother writing?” asked Bobby.

“The names of the things she is going to buy,” said Betty. “Isn’t that
what you are writing, Mother?”

“Yes, dear,” answered Mother. “I am making a list of the things to buy at
the grocery store.”

All were soon ready to go.

Mother put baby in his carriage.

Betty carried her shopping bag, and Bobby had a market basket on his arm.

“Oh, see what is in the window!” said Bobby when they came up to the
grocery store.

The groceryman had a beautiful window.

[Illustration]

There were baskets of ripe red apples.

There were baskets of big blue plums.

There were rows of oranges and lemons.

There were ever so many kinds of fruit in the groceryman’s window.

“A fine day, Madam,” the groceryman said, when they went in the store.
“What can I do for you today?”

“I want some fresh eggs,” said Mother.

“These are fresh from the country,” said the groceryman.

“I will take two dozen,” said Mother.

“What will you have next?” asked the groceryman.

“A pound of your best butter,” said Mother.

“Do you need potatoes?” asked the groceryman.

“Put me up a peck,” said Mother. “And I will take this basket of ripe
tomatoes.”

“Any fruit?” asked the groceryman.

“How much are the peaches?” asked Mother.

“Thirty cents a basket,” answered the groceryman.

“I will take a basket of peaches,” said Mother.

“Anything else, Madam?” asked the groceryman.

“That is all today, thank you,” said Mother.

“Do you wish to take anything with you?” asked the groceryman.

“I will take the butter and eggs,” said Mother. “You may send the other
things.”

Mother paid for the groceries, then turned to Bobby and Betty.

Betty had bought a big blue plum.

But Bobby wanted to cross the street and buy a lollipop.

“You may,” said Mother. “The way is clear now. You may cross over. Be
sure to come right back.”

Bobby ran across the street and was soon back with a lollipop.

“Take a bite, baby,” said Bobby.

[Illustration]

And Bobby gave baby a bite of his lollipop.

“Take a bite, baby,” said Betty.

And Betty gave baby a bite of her big blue plum.

“We must go home now,” said Mother to the children.

Then she put the butter in Bobby’s basket and the eggs in the carriage at
baby’s feet.


_For study and play_:

    Handy Pandy, Jack-a-dandy,
    Loves plum cake and sugar candy.
    He bought some at the grocer’s shop
    And out he came, hop-hop-hop.

    Currants on a bush,
    And six on a stem,
    And cherries on a bending bough
    And Ned to gather them.

             —CHRISTINA G. ROSSETTI


_Riddle_:

    I went to the market and bought it.
    I returned home and wept with it.

                             _An onion_

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE GROCERY BOY COMES WITH THE GROCERIES


“Do you hear that wagon?” asked Bobby. “It’s coming bumpety, bumpety,
bumpety, bump!”

“Yes,” answered Betty. “How that wagon rattles and bumps! O Bobby, it’s
stopping here!”

“Oh, I know now what wagon it is,” said Bobby. “It’s the grocery wagon.
The grocery boy is bringing Mother’s groceries.”

“Let’s run and meet him,” said Betty.

“Did you bring something for us?” Bobby asked the grocery boy.

“Yes,” said the grocery boy. “This box of groceries is for your mother.”

By this time the grocery boy was at the back door. Mother met him.

“Your groceries, Madam,” said the boy as he put the box on the kitchen
floor.

“Thank you,” said Mother.

When the boy went back to his wagon, Bobby asked, “Is that your horse?”

“No, but I drive it.”

“Is that your wagon?” asked Betty.

“No,” answered the grocery boy. “It belongs to the groceryman.”

“What is in the wagon?” asked Bobby.

“Groceries.”

“What are you going to do with them?” asked Bobby.

“Take them to the people who paid for them,” said the boy.

“Did they pay you?” asked Bobby.

“No,” answered the grocery boy. “They paid the groceryman.”

“Does anybody pay you?” asked Bobby.

“The groceryman pays me,” said the boy, and he jumped into the wagon and
drove away.

“The groceryman has everything nice to eat,” said Betty. “His store is
full of nice things to eat.”

“Let’s play we have a grocery store,” said Bobby.

Just then Mother called, “Come, Bobby! Come, Betty! Help me put the
groceries away.”

Bobby and Betty helped Mother.

Then she gave them the box the grocery boy left.

“That’s just what I want, Mother,” said Betty. “That will make a nice
grocery store.”

[Illustration]

Mother gave them some empty boxes to put in their grocery store.

They had a good time playing store.

Dolly and Teddy-bear came to their store to buy groceries.

Then Bobby hitched Queen to his cart to take the groceries to Dolly and
Teddy-bear.


_For study and play_:

Name things you buy by the peck.

How many quarts in a peck?

How many quarts in half a peck?

    Apples and oranges, four for a penny;
    You’re a good scholar to count so many.


_Riddle_:

    Down in the meadow is a green house,
    In the green house is a white house,
    In the white house is a red house,
    The red house is full of little negroes.

                              _A watermelon_

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE BANANA MAN


“Ba-na-nas! Ba-na-nas!” called the banana man.

“Who is calling?” said Bobby.

“The banana man,” answered Betty.

“I see him,” said Bobby. “He is coming down the street with his pushcart.”

Again the banana man called out, “Ba-na-nas! Ba-na-nas!”

“Let’s ask Mother if we can buy some bananas,” said Bobby.

Bobby and Betty ran in to Mother.

“O Mother,” said Betty. “The banana man is coming. Please buy some
bananas.”

“Please, Mother,” said Bobby.

“You may buy a dozen for me,” said Mother. “Betty, it is your turn to buy
today.”

“Why can’t I do it?” asked Bobby.

“Not this time,” said Mother. “It is Betty’s turn today.”

Mother gave Betty thirty-five cents, and she bought a dozen bananas.

The banana man then went down the street calling, “Ba-na-nas! Ba-na-nas!
Ba-na-nas!”

Mother had bananas at dinner that night.

Betty told Father about the banana man, and Bobby told him about his
pushcart.

When the story hour came, Father said, “See if you can find the banana
man in your Mother Goose books.”

Bobby and Betty looked through their books.

“I can’t find the banana man,” said Bobby.

“Here’s a woman with a wheelbarrow,” said Betty. “Does she have fruit to
sell?”

“Yes,” answered Father. “That is the cherry woman.”

“Did she sell cherries?” asked Bobby.

“Yes,” answered Father. “She sold cherries and oranges and lemons.”

“She doesn’t come here,” said Betty.

“No, dear,” said Father. “Women don’t sell fruit from wheelbarrows on our
streets.”

“Why not?” asked Betty.

“Because that work is now done by men,” Father answered.

“The banana man has a pushcart,” said Bobby. “But the fruit and vegetable
man has a horse and wagon.”


_For study and play_:

    Tippety, tippety, tippety, toe.
    Give me a banana and I’ll go.

    Cherries, cherries! Big as plums!
    Who comes! Who comes!


_Riddles_:

    Riddle me, riddle me, red coat,
    A stick in his hand, a stone in his throat,
    Riddle me, riddle me, rotic, tot!

                                     _A cherry_

    Niddy, noddy,
    Two heads and one body.

            _A wheelbarrow_

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE FRUIT AND VEGETABLE MAN


“Beets! beets! Three bunches for a dime! Beets! beets! Three bunches for
a dime!” called a boy at the back gate.

“The fruit and vegetable man is at the back gate,” said Bobby. “Do you
want to buy anything?”

“I will go to the door,” said Mother.

“Strawberries! strawberries! Two boxes for a quarter! Strawberries!
strawberries! Two boxes for a quarter!” called the boy at the back gate.

“Bring me two boxes of strawberries,” said Mother.

“Do you want any beets?” asked the boy. “They are three bunches for a
dime.”

“Bring me three bunches,” said Mother.

The fruit and vegetable man took the beets and strawberries out of the
wagon.

The boy brought them to the kitchen door.

“Can you change fifty cents?” asked Mother.

“Yes,” said the boy. “Thirty-five, forty, fifty cents.”

“How much did he give you, Mother?” asked Bobby.

“Fifteen cents,” answered Mother. “That is the change.”

“I want to know how to make change,” said Bobby.

“So do I,” added Betty.

“You can learn, Bobby,” said Mother. “Take out your toy money, children.
Buy and sell and learn to make change.”

[Illustration]


_For study and play_:

    The fruit man comes round every day.
    He brings us things to eat.
    He brings us apples, berries, grapes,
    And peaches pink and sweet.

                  —GRADE I, North School,
                   Hinsdale, Illinois

    O was an orange
    So yellow and round;
    When it fell off the tree,
    It fell to the ground,
          Down to the ground.


_Riddles_:

    It can run and can’t walk.
    It has a tongue and can’t talk.

                          _A wagon_

    What stands on its foot and has its heart in its head?

                                          _A cabbage-head_




[Illustration]

BOBBY AND BETTY GO TO THE MEAT MARKET


“Bobby! Betty!” called Mother one morning.

Bobby and Betty came in from their play.

“What is it, Mother?” asked Bobby. “What do you want?”

“I want you to go to the meat market and buy a pound of ham.”

“I’ll buy it,” said Bobby.

“Let me buy it,” said Betty.

“You may buy the ham today, Bobby,” said Mother. “Here is the money.
Bring me the change.”

Bobby and Betty went down the street.

They were soon in front of the meat market.

“O Betty!” cried Bobby. “Look at those birds.”

“They are not birds,” said a lady. “They are chickens.”

Bobby and Betty looked at the chickens.

They were poking their heads out of a cage.

“The chickens want to get out of the cage,” said Betty.

“I wish they were out,” said Bobby. “I want to see them run.”

“Let’s go into the meat market,” said Betty.

They went in and waited their turn.

While they were waiting, they saw a rabbit hanging on a hook.

“What’s that?” asked Betty.

“I think it’s a rabbit,” answered Bobby.

“I wish I had one,” said Betty.

[Illustration]

“Good morning,” said the big man behind the counter. “What can I do for
you today?”

“I want a pound of ham,” said Bobby.

The man took a ham from a hook and cut off three slices.

He put the slices of ham on the scales.

“That is just one pound,” he said. “What next?”

“That is all,” said Bobby. “Here is the money.”

Bobby put the change in his pocket.

“Let me carry the ham, Bobby,” said Betty.

“No,” said Bobby. “Mother told me to buy it.”

“Let me carry it, I say!” cried Betty.

“No, no, no!” cried Bobby. “You bought the bananas. It’s my turn to buy
today.”


_For study and play_:

    To market, to market, to buy a fat pig,
    Home again, home again, jiggety jig.

    To market, to market, to buy a fat hog,
    Home again, home again, jiggety jog.

    To market, to market, a-gallop, a-trot,
    To buy some meat to put in the pot.

    To market, to market, trittity-trot,
    To buy one mutton to put in the pot.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

    Jack Sprat could eat no fat,
    His wife could eat no lean;
    And so between them both, you see,
    They licked the platter clean.

    Chicky! chicky! chick!
    Oh, come quick!
    From my little fingers
    A crumb you may pick.

Pork is the flesh of the ⸺.

Beef is the flesh of the ⸺.

Mutton is the flesh of the ⸺.

Ham is the ⸺ of a ⸺ cured by salting and smoking.




[Illustration]

WHAT BOBBY AND BETTY FOUND IN THEIR BOOKS


When the story hour came, Bobby and Betty took their books from the
bookcase.

“See, Father,” said Bobby. “See the man with the chickens.”

Father looked at the picture in Bobby’s book.

“What is the man going to do with the chickens?” asked Bobby.

“He is going to sell them,” answered Father.

“I know where he is going,” said Betty. “He is on his way to the meat
market.”

“No, dear. The chicken man used to sell chickens from his basket on the
street.”

“Does he do it now?” asked Betty.

“No, Betty,” answered Father. “It was a long time ago that the chicken
man sold chickens on the street.”

“We saw chickens today,” said Bobby. “They were in a cage just outside
the meat market.”

“We saw a rabbit, too,” said Betty.

Just then Betty turned a page in her book and came to the picture of a
rabbit woman.

“See,” said Betty. “The woman has rabbits on a pole.”

“She has geese, too,” added Bobby.

“Who is she?” asked Betty. “What is she doing?”

“She’s a rabbit woman,” said Father. “She is going down the street
selling rabbits and geese.”

[Illustration]

“Is there a rabbit woman on our street?” asked Betty.

“No, dear,” answered Father. “The rabbit woman lived a long, long time
ago.”

“Now we buy rabbits at the meat market,” said Bobby.

“Did the people have markets long ago?” asked Bobby.

“Yes,” answered Father. “They had markets. But they also had men and
women who sold their wares on the streets.”


_For study and play_:

    Chick, chick, chatter man,
      How much are your geese?
    Chick, chick, chatter man,
      Five cents apiece.
    Chick, chick, chatter man,
      That’s too dear.
    Chick, chick, chatter man,
      You get out of here.


A COUNTING-OUT RIME

    R was a rabbit,
      Who had a bad habit
    Of eating the flowers
      In gardens and bowers.
    Naughty fat rabbit.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

BOBBY AND BETTY MAKE SHOES FOR DOLLY


“Dolly has lost her shoe,” said Betty. “I can’t find it anywhere.”

“Look again,” said Mother.

Betty looked and looked, but she could not find it.

Bobby looked and looked, and he could not find it.

“O Mother, what shall I do?” asked Betty.

“Make a shoe,” said Mother.

“I don’t know how,” said Betty.

“Mother will show us how to make shoes,” said Bobby. “Won’t you, Mother?”

“Yes, dear,” answered Mother.

Then Mother showed Bobby and Betty how to make shoes for Dolly.

That very day Grandfather came to see Bobby and Betty.

“See, Grandfather,” said Betty. “See dolly’s new shoes.”

“They are very nice,” said Grandfather. “Who made them?”

“I made this one,” said Betty.

“I made that one,” said Bobby.

“You are good shoemakers,” said Grandfather. “Listen and I’ll sing a
shoemaker’s song.”

Bobby and Betty drew up their chairs close to Grandfather’s big chair.

Then Grandfather sang this song:

    “When I was a shoemaker,
    A shoemaker was I.
    I went this way, and that way,
    And this way, and that way.
    When I was a shoemaker,
    A shoemaker was I.”

[Illustration]

“Sing it again,” said Bobby.

“Please do,” said Betty.

Then Grandfather sang the song and Bobby and Betty sang with him.


_For study and play_:

      Little Betty Blue
      Lost her holiday shoe.
    What shall little Betty do?
      Make her another
      To match the other.
    Then she’ll walk on two.

    Dirty shoe, dirty shoe,
    What will your mother and father do?

              _Said to a child whose shoes are muddy_

    What goes all day and sits in a corner at night?

                                            _A shoe_

    Tap-a-tap shoe, that would I do,
      If I had a little more leather.
    We’ll sit in the sun till the leather doth come,
      Then we’ll tap them both together.

    There was an old woman who lived in a shoe.
    She had so many children, she didn’t know what to do.
    She gave them some soup and a piece of white bread,
    She sang them a song and put them to bed.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

BOBBY AND BETTY GO TO THE SHOEMAKER’S SHOP


“There’s a hole in my shoe,” said Bobby.

“There’s a hole in mine, too,” said Betty.

“Let me see your shoes, children,” said Mother.

Bobby and Betty showed Mother their shoes.

“Take off your shoes,” said Mother. “Put on your new shoes.”

Bobby went to the closet off his bedroom and took out his shoes and put
them on.

Betty went to the closet off her bedroom and took out her shoes and put
them on.

“Now take your old shoes to the shoemaker,” said Mother. “Ask him to mend
them.”

Mother gave Bobby and Betty some money to pay the shoemaker.

They were soon at the door of his shop.

They stood and listened to the shoemaker’s hammer.

“Rap-a-tap-tap! Rap-a-tap-tap!” went the shoemaker’s hammer.

Bobby and Betty opened the door and went into the shop.

“Good morning,” said the shoemaker.

[Illustration]

“Good morning, good morning,” said Bobby and Betty.

“What can I do for you today?” asked the shoemaker.

“Will you please mend my shoe?” asked Bobby.

“Will you please mend my shoe?” asked Betty.

“Yes, yes,” said the shoemaker. “I will mend your shoes.”

“Here are my shoes,” said Bobby.

The shoemaker looked at Bobby’s shoes.

He looked at Betty’s shoes.

Then “Rap-a-tap-tap! Rap-a-tap-tap!” went the shoemaker’s hammer.

Bobby and Betty watched the shoemaker work.

They kept time with his hammer.

It was not long before the shoes were mended.

“Here are your shoes,” said the shoemaker.

“Thank you,” said Bobby.

“Thank you,” said Betty.

Bobby and Betty paid the shoemaker for mending their shoes.

“Thank you,” said the shoemaker.

Then Bobby and Betty said, “Good-day,” and went home with their shoes.


_For study and play_:

    Shoemaker, shoemaker, mend my shoe.
      Give it one stitch, give it two;
    Give it three, and give it four,
      And if it needs it, give it more.

    Stitch, stitch away with your needle.
      Pull away hard with your thread.
    Rub it with wax to the right and the left,
      And knock the old peg in the head.

    If I were a shoemaker,
    ’Twould be my pride
    The best of all shoemakers to be.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

PLAYING SHOEMAKER


One day Bobby and Betty had a party.

They played they were shoemakers mending shoes.

All but Bobby sat down on the floor so as to make a ring.

Then they sang:

    “Rap-a-tap, tap! Tick-a-tack, too!
    This is the way we mend a shoe.”

While they were singing Bobby came into the room.

When they stopped singing, he said;

    “Shoemaker, shoemaker, mend my shoe.
    Have it done by half-past two.”

“Yes,” said the shoemakers. “We will have it done by half-past two.”

Then the shoemakers worked and sang:

    “Rap-a-tap, tap! Tick-a-tack, too!
    This must be done by half-past two.”

Soon Bobby came back and said, “It is half-past two. Is my shoe mended?”

“I have passed it to my next-door neighbor,” answered the head shoemaker.

[Illustration]

“Is my shoe mended?” asked Bobby of the next-door neighbor.

“My next-door neighbor has it,” was the answer.

Then Bobby asked the next child; but he always got the same answer.

At last he saw who had the shoe, so he asked the right one.

Then all the shoemakers called out:

    “Little boy, little boy, here is your shoe.
      It was mended by half-past two.”

[Illustration]


_For study and play_:

    Shoemaker, shoemaker, mend my shoe.
    Have it done by half-past two.
    Stitch it up and stitch it down,
    Now see with whom the shoe is found.

    Shoemaker, shoemaker, mend my shoe.
    Give it a stitch and that will do.
    Here’s a nail, and there’s a prod,
    And now my shoe is well shod.

    Tip-tap, rip-rap,
      Tick-a-tack-too.
    This way, that way,
      So we make a shoe,
    Getting rich, every stitch,
      Tick-a-tack-too.

            When I’m a man,
          I’ll be a shoemaker if I can.
    I’ll sit on a bench, with my last held so,
    And in and out my needle will go.
    I’ll sew so strong that my work shall wear,
    Till nothing is left but my stitches there,
            When I’m a man.

[Illustration]


AN ACTION SONG

    This is the way we mend our shoes,
      Mend our shoes, mend our shoes;
    This is the way we mend our shoes,
      On a cold and frosty morning!

    This is the way the ladies walk,
      Ladies walk, ladies walk;
    This is the way the ladies walk
      On a cold and frosty morning!

    This is the way the gentlemen walk,
      Gentlemen walk, gentlemen walk;
    This is the way the gentlemen walk
      On a cold and frosty morning!


A SONG OF THE SHOEMAKER

    Stretch the leather over the last,
    Fit it and sew it and hold it fast.

    Wax the thread, pull it through and through;
    Stitch it and stitch it and sing a song, too.

    Rap-a-tap, tap! Tick-a-tack, too!
    This is the way to make a shoe.

    Take a sharp awl and punch a hole
    Right through the upper and through the sole.

    Put in one peg, put in two;
    Chuckle and laugh as you hammer them through.

    Rap-a-tap, tap! Tick-a-tack, too!
    This is the way to make a shoe.

    Stretch the leather over the last,
    Fit it and sew it firm and fast.

              —Adapted from a poem by an unknown writer




[Illustration]

BOBBY AND BETTY GO TO THE SHOE STORE


“Dear me, dear me!” said Mother one night at bedtime when she looked at
Bobby’s shoes.

“What’s the matter, Mother?” asked Bobby.

“How do you wear out your shoes so fast?” asked Mother. “These shoes are
not fit to wear.”

“I’ll take them to the shoemaker,” said Bobby. “He’ll mend them.”

“They are past mending,” said Mother. “You must wear your other shoes
every day, and we will go to the shoe store and buy a new pair.”

“May I have a new pair?” asked Betty.

“Let me see your shoes,” said Mother.

Betty came up close to Mother.

“Why, Betty!” said Mother. “Your shoes are almost as badly worn as
Bobby’s.”

“May I have a new pair, Mother?” asked Betty.

“Yes, Betty,” answered Mother. “We will go to the shoe store tomorrow.”

The next day Bobby and Betty went with Mother to the shoe store.

“Shoes for children,” answered Mother when the salesman asked what he
could show her.

“What kind, Madam?” asked the salesman.

“Nice, soft shoes,” said Mother, “and shoes that will wear well.”

“Their last shoes were nice and soft; but they did not wear well.”

“Children are rough with their shoes, Madam,” said the salesman.

“Better get something heavier than they have been wearing.”

“I want heavy shoes,” said Bobby. “That’s the kind the big boys wear.”

“How do you like these, Madam?” asked the salesman.

“They seem heavy for a child,” said Mother.

“I like those shoes,” said Bobby.

“Let him try them on,” said the salesman. “Let’s see how they fit. And
let’s see how this shoe fits the little girl.”

The salesman then took off one of Bobby’s shoes and put a new shoe on his
foot.

He took off one of Betty’s shoes and put a new shoe on her foot.

“Be sure the shoes are long enough,” said Mother. “The children are
growing fast.”

[Illustration]

“These fit very well,” said the salesman. “See, Madam, there is plenty of
room.”

“How do they feel?” asked Mother.

“All right,” answered Bobby.

“These are nice shoes,” said Betty. “I like them.”

“I will take these shoes,” said Mother.

The salesman put the shoes in shoe boxes and Mother paid him for them.

Then they went into the dry-goods store, and Mother bought each of the
children two pairs of new stockings.


_For study and play_:

    “Little Blue Apron,
        How do you do?
    Never a stocking
        And never a shoe.”

    Little Blue Apron
        She answered me:
    “You don’t wear stockings
        And shoes by the sea.”

    “Why, little Blue Apron,
        It seems to me
    Very delightful
        To live by the sea.

    “But what would hatters
        And shoemakers do
    If everyone lived
        By the sea like you?”

              —AN OLD STORY BOOK

    Any shoes to buy? Any shoes to buy
        Of Shoemaker John today?
    Pretty shoes of red, pretty shoes of black,
        Perhaps I’ll give them away!

    With a rap, rap, rap, and a tap, tap, tap,
    See the Shoemaker work away,
    With a rap-a-tap and a rap-a-tap,
    Now old Shoemaker John, good day!

                        —LAURA ROUNTREE-SMITH

    There was a young lady of Ryde,
    Whose shoestrings were seldom untied.
    She purchased some clogs,
    And some small spotted dogs,
    And frequently walked about Ryde.

                            —EDWARD LEAR


_Riddles_:

    I tie it up and it walks.
    I unfasten it and it stops.

                       _A shoe_

    What walks with its head downward?

                    _A nail in a shoe_




[Illustration]

MOTHER AND BETTY GO TO THE DRESSMAKER’S SHOP


“Mother is going to the dressmaker’s today,” said Bobby. “I heard her say
so.”

“I wish I could go with her,” said Betty. “I am going to ask Mother if I
can go.”

“She won’t let you go,” said Bobby. “Little girls don’t go to the
dressmaker’s.”

“Yes, they do,” said Betty.

Betty ran to the house. “Mother, Mother!” she cried. “Please may I go
with you to the dressmaker’s?”

“Don’t you want to stay with Bobby and play with baby?” asked Mother.

“No,” said Betty. “I want to go with you.”

“I will see,” answered Mother.

Mother then called Bobby.

“Play with baby, Bobby,” said Mother. “Betty wants to go with me to the
dressmaker’s.”

“Don’t let Betty go,” said Bobby. “Make her stay and take care of baby.”

“Betty will stay when you go with Father to the tailor’s shop,” said
Mother. “You may go with Father when he goes to the tailor’s.”

“All right,” said Bobby. “I’ll stay if I may go with Daddy.”

Mother and Betty went to the dressmaker’s.

The dressmaker fitted Mother’s new dress.

Betty thought Mother stood very still while the dressmaker put pins in
her dress.

The dressmaker pinned and pinned and pinned.

Betty thought she would never stop putting pins in Mother’s new dress.

Betty sat very still.

She looked at the dresses in the shop.

She was glad when Mother’s dress was fitted.

“When may I have it?” asked Mother.

“I will send it Saturday,” said the dressmaker.

“Thank you,” said Mother. “Be sure to send the bill. I am glad you can
let me have the dress before Sunday.”


_For study and play_:

    Pin it here, pin it there,
    Pin it, pin it, everywhere.

    I put my needle in,
    I pull my needle out;
    I draw it close, and draw it smooth,
      And turn my work about.

                         —A SEWING SONG

    Little Polly Flinders
      Sat among the cinders,
        Warming her pretty little toes.
    Her mother came and caught her,
      Whipped her little daughter,
        For spoiling her nice new clothes.

          Hark, hark!
          The dogs do bark,
    The beggars are coming to town;
          Some in tags,
          Some in rags,
    And some in velvet gowns.

                         —SELECTED




[Illustration]

BOBBY GOES WITH FATHER TO THE TAILOR’S SHOP


When Father came in sight, Bobby ran to meet him.

“When are you going to the tailor’s, Daddy?” asked Bobby.

“Tomorrow morning,” answered Father.

“May I go with you?” asked Bobby. “Please, Daddy.”

“No, Bobby, there is nothing at the tailor’s you want to see.”

“Oh, yes, there is, Daddy.”

“What do you want to see, Bobby?”

“I want to see the tailor. I want to see a man sew.”

“Very well, Bobby, you may go with me.”

Bobby was up early next morning.

When breakfast was over, he went with Father to the tailor’s shop.

The tailor brought out Father’s new suit.

Father tried it on.

Bobby thought Father stood very still.

The tailor clipped the coat with his sharp shears.

At first, Bobby thought he would spoil it.

Bobby saw the tailor’s thimble.

He saw the tailor’s needle.

He saw his thread and beeswax.

He saw the tailor’s sewing machine, and suits hanging on the wall.

At last the tailor said, “That’s all.”

“When will the suit be done?” asked Father.

“I will send it Saturday,” said the tailor.

“Send the bill with it, please,” said Father.

Father then said “Good day” to the tailor, and he and Bobby went out of
the shop.

“Run home, now,” said Father to Bobby. “I must be off to my work.”

The tailor kept his word.

He sent Father’s suit and the bill early Saturday morning.

An hour later Mother’s dress came with the dressmaker’s bill.

Father liked his new suit.

Mother liked her new dress.

They paid the bills that very day.

So the tailor and dressmaker had pay for their work.

And Father and Mother had their new clothes to wear to church on Sunday
morning.


_For study and play_:

    Poor old Robinson Crusoe!
    Poor old Robinson Crusoe!
    They made him a coat,
    Of an old nanny goat,
      I wonder how they could do so!
    With a ring-a-ting-tang,
    And a ring-a-ting-tang,
      Poor old Robinson Crusoe.

    I went around to the tailor’s shop
    To buy a tailor’s needle.
    That’s the way the money goes,
    And pop goes the weasel!


_Riddles_:

    When may a man’s pocket be empty, and yet have something in it?

                                         _When it has a hole in it_

    Inside hole,
    Outside full of many holes.

                    _A thimble_




[Illustration]

NEW CLOTHES FOR BOBBY AND BETTY


Sunday afternoon Father said, “Bobby must have a new suit.”

“Will the tailor make it?” asked Bobby.

“No, Bobby. Mother will take you to the dry-goods store. She will buy you
a ready-made suit.”

“That will be fine,” said Bobby. “Let’s go now, Mother.”

“Today is Sunday, Bobby.”

“Tomorrow will be Monday,” said Bobby. “May we go Monday, Mother?”

“Yes, we will go tomorrow afternoon.”

Just then Betty came in from play.

“Where are you going Monday afternoon, Bobby?” she asked.

“Mother and I are going somewhere. You can’t go.”

“Betty may go with us,” said Mother. “She needs a new dress.”

“Good!” cried Betty, “I’m going to have a new dress. Shall we buy it of
the dressmaker, Mother?”

“No, dear. We don’t buy dresses at the dressmaker’s. The dressmaker makes
dresses.”

“She made a pretty dress for you, Mother,” said Betty. “I think she will
make one for me.”

“I can find a nice dress for you at the dry-goods store,” said Mother.

“Is that the place where there are pretty dresses in the window?” asked
Betty.

“Yes, dear.”

Monday afternoon Mother and the children went to the dry-goods store.

A saleswoman came up to Mother and said, “Madam, what can I show you?”

“Boys’ suits, please,” answered Mother.

The saleswoman led the way to the place where boys’ suits were kept.

“I want one that will wear well,” said Mother.

“I think you will like this,” said the saleswoman. Bobby tried on the
coat.

He liked it and Mother liked it.

“I will take it,” said Mother.

Mother then paid for the suit and asked the saleswoman to send it.

“Would you like to see little girls’ dresses?” asked the saleswoman. “We
have some pretty ones.”

“If you please,” said Mother.

The saleswoman led the way.

They soon came to the place where little girls’ dresses were kept in the
store.

Betty saw a dress with ruffles on the skirt and a pretty sash.

“I like that,” said Betty.

“It’s a pretty dress,” said Mother. “May she try it on?”

“Yes,” said the saleswoman.

The saleswoman slipped the dress over the one Betty had on.

Mother liked it and Betty liked it.

So Mother bought the dress for Betty. And she bought cloth for an
everyday dress and for two everyday aprons.


_For study and play_:

Name things you buy by the yard.

How many feet in a yard?

How many inches in a foot? How many inches in a yard?

How many inches in a quarter of a yard? In half a yard?

    Tom Trot, a man of law,
    Sold his bed and lay on straw,
    Sold his straw and lay on grass,
    To buy his wife a looking-glass.

    Hector Protector was dressed all in green;
    Hector Protector was sent to the Queen.
      The Queen did not like him,
      No more did the King;
    So Hector Protector was sent back again.

[Illustration]

    There was a young lady in blue
    Who said, “Is it you? Is it you?”
      When they said, “Yes, it is,”
      She replied only, “Whizz!”
    That ungracious young lady in blue.

                          —EDWARD LEAR

    Trit, trot to market, to buy a penny doll.
    Trit, trot home again, market’s sold them all.

    Fine feathers don’t make fine birds.
    Handsome is as handsome does.

    Dancy-diddlety-poppity-pin!
    Have a new dress when summer comes in;
          When summer goes out,
          ’Tis all worn out,
    Dancy-diddlety-poppity-pin!


_Riddle_:

    Four fingers and a thumb,
    Yet flesh and bone have I none.

                          _A glove_




[Illustration]

WORK AND PLAY


Mother made Betty’s everyday dress.

She bought a pattern and laid it on the cloth.

She cut it out and basted it.

When it was basted, Mother called Betty.

“Come, Betty,” said Mother. “I want to fit your dress.”

“You are a dressmaker today, Mother,” said Betty. “I’m a fine lady that
has come to have a dress fitted.”

“Then you must stand very still, Betty, while I fit your dress.”

When the dress was fitted, Betty said, “Now I’ll play I’m a dressmaker.
This is my shop. Come, Bobby. Be a fine lady. Let me make you a dress.”

“I don’t want to be a fine lady,” said Bobby. “I don’t want a dress. I’m
a tailor. This is my shop.”

“You can’t make a suit of clothes,” said Betty.

“I can make an apron,” said Bobby. “See, Teddy-bear is a shoemaker. I’ll
make the shoemaker an apron.”

Mother gave them some pieces of cloth.

She gave each a needle and thread.

They played Bobby was a tailor and Betty a dressmaker.

[Illustration]


_For study and play_:

    When I was a dressmaker, a dressmaker, a dressmaker,
    When I was a dressmaker, a dressmaker was I.
      It was this way, and that way,
      And this way, and that way,
    Oh, when I was a dressmaker, a dressmaker was I.

    When I was a tailor, a tailor, a tailor,
    When I was a tailor, a tailor was I.
      It was this way, and that way,
      And this way, and that way,
    Oh, when I was a tailor, a tailor was I.

    “Sing, sing!”
    “What shall I sing?”
    “The cat ran away with my apron string!”


_Game_:

    Thread the needle to begin,
    Sometimes out and sometimes in.
    Tailor’s blind and cannot see,
    So thread the tailor’s needle.




THE SCISSORS-GRINDER


“My scissors are dull,” said Mother, when she began to cut out Betty’s
aprons. “I wish the scissors-grinder would come.”

“He is coming,” said Bobby. “I hear his bell.”

“That sounds like his bell,” said Mother. “Look out, Bobby, and see if it
really is the scissors-grinder.”

“It is the scissors-grinder!” cried Bobby. “He is coming down the back
street.”

They looked out and saw the scissors-grinder.

He was carrying his grindstone on his back and playing a tune with his
bell.

“Call him, Bobby,” said Mother.

The scissors-grinder was quick to see Bobby.

Before Bobby had time to call, he had turned in toward the back door.

[Illustration]

He swung his grindstone from his back and set it on the ground.

“Will you please sharpen my scissors?” asked Mother.

The scissors-grinder took the scissors in his hand.

Then “Whir-r-r, whir-r-r, whir-r-r,” went the grindstone. Sparks flew
from the whirring stone.

Bobby and Betty stepped back. They were afraid of the grindstone.

“Any knives to grind?” asked the scissors-man when the scissors were
ground.

“Yes,” answered Mother. “I wish you would grind this knife.”

Again the wheel went, “Whir-r-r, whir-r-r, whir-r-r.”

Again sparks flew from the grindstone.

Then the man gave Mother the knife, and she paid him for his work.

The scissors-grinder now swung his grindstone on his back. Again he rang
his bell.

Bobby and Betty watched the scissors-grinder until he turned a street
corner.


_For study and play_:

    Have you any old knives to grind?
      And scissors to grind, too?
    Bring them out, my pretty dears,
      I’ll make them look like new.




[Illustration]

MOTHER BUYS BETTY A NEW HAT


One day Mother read some verses to Bobby and Betty.

She read “Little Blue Apron.”

“Is that ‘Little Blue Apron’?” asked Betty.

“Yes, dear,” answered Mother. “If I don’t get you a new hat soon, you
will be like ‘Little Blue Apron.’”

“I like ‘Little Blue Apron,’” said Betty.

“But I should like to have a new hat, Mother.”

“I will get you a hat,” said Mother. “We will go to the milliner’s shop
today.”

When afternoon came, Mother said, “Bobby, be a good boy. Stay and play
with baby.”

Then Mother and Betty went down the street to the milliner’s shop.

When they reached the shop, they stood and looked at the hats in the
window.

“Those are ladies’ hats,” said Mother. “Let’s go in.”

“Do you wish a hat for yourself, Madam?” asked the milliner.

“Not today,” answered Mother. “Please show us some hats for little girls.”

“That is a pretty hat,” said Betty.

“It’s pretty, but it won’t wear well,” said Mother.

“How do you like this hat?” asked the milliner.

“That is better,” said Mother. “I like the shape.”

“It’s very becoming,” said the milliner when she put the hat on Betty’s
head.

“How do you like it, Betty?” asked Mother.

“I like it,” answered Betty.

“It’s a nice hat for a little girl,” said Mother. “It will match your
dress.”

“Will you buy it for me, Mother?” asked Betty.

“Yes, dear,” answered Mother.

Mother paid the milliner for the hat.

The milliner put the hat in a paper bag and handed it to Mother.

“Thank you,” said the milliner. “Come in again.”

“Thank you,” said Mother. “We shall be glad to come again.”

On the way home, they stopped at a candy store. Mother bought three
sticks of candy.

Then Mother and Betty went home to Bobby and baby Billy.


_For study and play_:

    “Little Blue Apron,
      Never a hat.
    How do you manage
      To do like that?”

    “Why, what is the use
      Of a hat?” said she.
    “You never wear hats
      When you’re by the sea.”

          —AN OLD STORY BOOK

        H was a hat
    Which was all on one side;
      Its crown was too high,
    And its brim was too wide.
      Oh, what a hat!

        V was a veil
    With a border upon it,
      And a ribbon to tie it
    All round a pink bonnet
      Pretty green veil!

                —EDWARD LEAR




[Illustration]

FATHER BUYS BOBBY A NEW HAT


Betty showed her new hat to Father.

“That’s a very nice hat,” said Father. “Did Mother buy one for Bobby?”

“No, Daddy,” said Betty. “Mother and I went to the milliner’s shop. The
milliner doesn’t have hats for boys as big as Bobby.”

“That’s so,” said Father. “Bobby can get a good hat at the dry-goods
store.”

“Won’t you take him there in the morning?” asked Mother.

“Yes,” said Father. “I’ll take him with me tomorrow morning. I pass the
store on my way to work.”

Bobby knew nothing about going until the next morning.

Then Mother said, “Bobby, Father says you may go with him this morning.”

“Good!” cried Bobby. “That will be fun. Daddy, where are we going?”

“To the dry-goods store,” answered Father.

“Is that the store where I got my new suit?” asked Bobby.

“Yes, Bobby,” answered Father. “We will see if we can find a hat in the
store for a boy of your size.”

“It’s for me, Daddy, isn’t it?” asked Bobby.

“Have you been a good boy?” asked Father.

“When Betty went with Mother to get her hat, I stayed with baby,” said
Bobby. “I played with him.”

“That’s a good boy,” said Father. “I think we can find a hat for you in
the dry-goods store.”

“I am sure we can, Daddy. They have ever so many things in the dry-goods
store.”

When Father and Bobby went into the store, a salesman asked, “What can I
show you?”

“Boys’ hats,” replied Father.

The salesman showed Father and Bobby the way to the place where boys’
hats were kept.

Bobby tried one on.

“That’s too small,” said Father. “Find a larger one for him.”

“This hat is larger,” said Bobby.

“How does it feel?” asked Father.

“All right,” said Bobby.

“I’ll take the hat,” said Father.

Father paid the salesman for Bobby’s hat.

Then he turned to Bobby and said, “Take your hat, young man. Now run
home.”


_For study and play_:

    Baby shall have a new bonnet,
      And baby shall go to the fair.
    And baby shall have a blue ribbon
      To tie up his bonny brown hair.


_Riddles_:

    There’s a garden that I ken,
    Full of little gentlemen,
    Little caps of blue they wear,
    And green ribbons very fair.

                           _Flax_

    What goes up when the rain comes down?

                             _An umbrella_




BOBBY LEARNS WHY MEN LIFT THEIR HATS


Bobby ran home with his new hat.

He showed it to Mother.

“That’s a nice hat for a little man,” said Mother. “You are old enough
now to lift your hat when you meet a friend on the street.”

“Why should I lift my hat, Mother?” asked Bobby.

“Gentlemen always lift their hats,” said Mother.

“Daddy does,” said Bobby. “I’ll ask him to tell me about it.”

That night Bobby asked, “Daddy, why do men lift their hats?”

“Sit down,” said Father. “I’ll tell you about it.”

Bobby and Betty drew up their chairs.

“A long, long time ago,” said Father, “there were knights who dressed in
full armor.”

“I’ve seen pictures of them,” said Bobby. “Mother showed us a picture of
a knight in full armor.”

“In those days,” added Father, “it was not safe for a knight to go out
unless he was dressed in full armor. But when a knight was among his
friends, he took off his helmet.”

“Why did he take off his helmet?” asked Bobby.

“He was among friends,” answered Daddy. “It was safe to do it. And so
when a knight took off his helmet, he the same as said, ‘I am in the
presence of friends.’”

“That was a nice way to say it,” said Betty.

[Illustration]

“Yes, dear,” said Father. “And a man has a nice way of saying about the
same thing.”

“What is a man’s nice way of saying the same thing, Father?” asked Bobby.

“It is by lifting his hat,” answered Father.

“What does he say when he lifts his hat?” asked Bobby.

“When a man lifts his hat, it’s a way of saying, ‘I am in the presence of
friends.’”

“That’s a good story,” said Bobby. “I like it.”

“Put on your hat, my little man,” said Father. “Play you are walking on
the street. Betty, play you are a friend.”

Bobby put on his hat and walked up and down the room. Soon Betty met him.
Bobby lifted his hat as he passed her.

“Well done, young man,” said Father. “Now tell me what you meant to say
when you lifted your hat.”

“I am in the presence of a friend,” said Bobby. “That’s what I meant to
say.”


_For study and play_:

    Politeness is to do and say,
    The kindest thing in the kindest way.

    If a body meet a body
    Coming through the town,
    If a body greet a body,
    Need a body frown?

                  —SELECTED

    There was an old man of Brest,
    Who was always funnily drest.
      He wore gloves on his nose,
      And a hat on his toes,
    And a boot in the midst of his chest.

                        —COSMO MONKHOUSE

[Illustration]




THE LAUNDRY MAN


Bobby has a blue laundry bag in his closet.

Betty has a yellow laundry bag in her closet.

They put their soiled clothes in their laundry bags.

Sometimes Mother sends soiled clothes to the laundry.

The laundryman calls for them.

Bobby and Betty fold the clothes before the laundryman comes.

Mother ties them in a neat bundle.

She gives the bundle to the laundryman when he calls for the clothes.

A few days later the laundryman brings back a bundle of clean clothes.

He gives Mother the bill for the laundry, and she pays him for the work.

Bobby and Betty help Mother put the clean clothes away.

Then they play laundryman.

[Illustration]

They hitch Queen to the cart and call for Dolly’s and Teddy-bear’s
clothes.

They play they wash and iron the clothes.

Then they bring them back to Teddy-bear and Dolly.


_For study and play_:

Does the laundryman ever call at your house?

Does your mother make a list of the clothes she sends to the laundry?

Cleanliness is next to godliness.

    Who hath a good trade
    Through all waters may wade.




AT THE BARBER’S SHOP


Sometimes Father goes to the barber’s shop.

Sometimes Bobby and Betty go.

The barber cuts their hair.

One morning Father said to Bobby, “Your hair is too long. You should go
to the barber and have him cut it.”

“All right,” said Bobby.

“Betty’s hair should be cut,” said Mother. “It is getting too long for a
little girl.”

“May we go to the barber today?” asked Betty.

“Yes, dear,” answered Mother.

That afternoon Mother took the children to the barber’s shop.

There was a big pole in front of the shop.

“That is his sign,” said Bobby.

“How do you know?” asked Betty.

“Daddy said so,” answered Bobby.

The barber met them at the door.

“How do you do?” said he.

“Very well, thank you,” said Mother.

Bobby and Betty said, “How do you do?”

“What can I do for you today?” asked the barber.

“Please, Mr. Barber, I want my hair cut,” said Betty.

“I want my hair cut,” said Bobby.

“Very well,” said the barber. “Lay off your things, children. Madam, be
seated. Here is a chair, little boy. Come, little girl, sit in this big
chair.”

Betty stepped forward and the barber helped her get into the big chair.

He put a towel around Betty’s neck.

He took out a comb and a pair of shears and began to cut Betty’s hair.

Once Betty dodged.

“Sit still, little girl, sit still,” said the barber. “I shall not hurt
you.”

[Illustration]

Betty tried to sit very still.

Her hair was soon cut.

“Shall I curl it?” asked the barber.

“Yes, please,” said Betty. “I like curly hair.”

When Bobby took the chair, he said, “I don’t want any curls.”

“That’s right,” said the barber. “You are too big to have your hair
curled.”

When the barber had cut Bobby’s hair, Mother paid him for his work.

Then they all went home to get dinner ready for Father.


_For study and play_:

    Good morning, Mr. Barber Man,
      You see I’m here quite early;
    I want my hair cut, if you please,
      But oh, sir, cut it curly.

    There was a little girl who had a little curl
      Right in the middle of her forehead.
    And when she was good, she was very, very good,
      But when she was bad, she was horrid.

                                          —UNKNOWN


_Riddle_:

    I don’t have it,
    I don’t want it,
    If I had it
    I wouldn’t take the world for it.

                        _A bald head_




[Illustration]

THE BROOM MAN


One day the broom man came down the street.

“Brooms, brooms, brooms!” called the broom man.

“Come and buy. Come and buy a broom!”

“Mother! Mother!” called Bobby and Betty. “Don’t you want to buy a broom?”

“Yes,” said Mother. “My old broom is wearing out. I need a new broom.”

Bobby called to the broom man, and he came to the back door.

Mother bought a new broom.

She paid the broom man eighty cents.

Then he went down the street calling, “Brooms, brooms, brooms!”

“Let me sweep with the new broom,” said Bobby.

Mother let Bobby sweep the back porch.

“Now it’s my turn to sweep,” said Betty.

“You may sweep the steps,” said Mother.

Betty worked very hard.

She wanted to sweep the steps clean.

“I could sweep better, Mother, if I were a little bigger,” said Betty. “I
wish the broom was not so big.”

“This broom is too big for a little girl,” said Mother.

“Some day I will buy you a smaller broom.”

“Oh, thank you, Mother,” said Betty. “Buy me a little broom.”

“You shall have a little broom,” said Mother. “And tonight I will teach
you and Bobby a song about broom girls who sold little brooms.”


_For study and play_:

    The broom man maketh his living most sweet,
    With carrying brooms from street to street;
    Who would desire a pleasanter thing,
    Than all the day long to do nothing but sing,
    “New brooms, green brooms, will you buy any?
    Come maidens, come quickly, let me make a penny”?

    A new broom sweeps clean.
    Sweep before your own door.

    Buy a big broom for lady,
    And a little broom for baby.


_Riddles_:

    Round the house and round the house, and yet stands in the corner.

                                                            _A broom_

    That which flies high and flies low, has no feet, yet wears shoes.

                                                                _Dust_


THE SONG OF THE DUTCH BROOM SELLER

    From Dutchland I come with my fine brooms all laden,
    So, Mistress and Maiden, will you please buy a broom?
    Buy a broom! Buy a broom!
    I’ve a large one for a lady
    And a small one for a baby,
    So, all you kind ladies,
    Will you please buy a broom?
    Buy a broom! Buy a broom!
    Buy a broom! Buy a broom!

[Illustration]




THE BALLOON MAN


“O Betty!” cried Bobby. “The balloon man is coming. I can hear his horn.”

“I can see him,” said Betty. “Just look!”

“My!” said Bobby. “Aren’t they pretty? I wish I could have a red balloon.”

“Let’s ask Mother if we can buy one,” said Betty.

Bobby ran and Betty ran, but Betty ran the faster.

“O Mother!” cried Betty. “Please give me ten cents. I want to buy a
balloon.”

“Please give me ten cents,” said Bobby. “I want to buy a red balloon.
Just look at it, Mother!”

“You have been good children today,” said Mother. “You may each buy a
balloon.”

[Illustration]

Mother gave each of them ten cents and they ran out to the street.

The balloon man saw them coming and cried, “Balloons! Will you buy a
balloon?”

“Please, sir,” said Bobby. “I will buy that red balloon. How much is it?”

[Illustration]

“Ten cents,” answered the balloon man.

“Here is a dime,” said Bobby.

“Take hold of the string, little boy,” said the man. “Don’t let it get
away from you.”

“Please, sir,” said Betty. “I want to buy a balloon.”

“Which one will you have, little girl?” asked the balloon man.

“I want a yellow balloon, if you please,” said Betty. “Here is a dime.”

The balloon man took the dime and said, “Be careful, Miss. Keep hold of
the string.”


_For study and play_:

    Now boys, now girls, come buy a balloon,
    ’Twill fly so swiftly up to the moon;
    Come buy them, blue, red, yellow, or green,
    ’Tis the prettiest toy that ever was seen.

    K was a Kite
    Which flew out of sight
    Above houses so high,
    Quite into the sky.
        Fly away Kite!

               —EDWARD LEAR

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

BOBBY AND BETTY FOLLOW THE HAND-ORGAN MAN


“Listen!” said Bobby. “Is that the band?”

“Let’s go and see,” said Betty.

Bobby and Betty ran out to the street.

A hand-organ man was coming.

He had been playing up the street and now was coming near.

“Let’s go and hear him play,” said Bobby.

“All right,” said Betty.

So Bobby and Betty ran up the street.

All the children in the block came out.

Some of them danced and clapped their hands while the hand-organ man
played.

The organ man kept looking up at the windows.

“Here’s a nickel,” said a woman to her little boy. “Take it to the
hand-organ man.”

The boy took the nickel to the organ-grinder.

He played another piece.

When this was played, Bobby said, “Please play another. I’ll bring you a
penny.”

Bobby and Betty ran to the house and Mother gave each of them a penny.

Bobby gave his penny to the hand-organ man, and the man started to go.

“Play another piece,” said Betty. “I’ll give you a penny.”

Again the organ-grinder played.

Betty gave him a penny.

The organ-grinder went farther down the street.

All the children followed.

When they came to the end of the block, all but Bobby and Betty turned
back.

Bobby and Betty stood still.

“It’s time to go back,” said Bobby.

“Let’s go a little farther,” said Betty. “Mother won’t care.”

The organ-grinder started a lively tune.

Bobby and Betty forgot to go back home.

They followed the organ-grinder.

On they went from house to house after the organ-grinder.

Sometimes they skipped and danced when the organ man played.

“This is fun,” said Bobby.

[Illustration]

“It’s just like being grown up,” said Betty.

So Bobby and Betty had a fine time as long as the organ man played his
tunes.

When he stopped playing, they began to feel tired.

“Let’s go home,” said Betty.

So Bobby and Betty turned back, but they did not know the way home.


_For study and play_:

    I knock at the knocker,
    I ring the little bell,
    Please give me a penny
    For singing this so well.

    Driddlety-drum, driddlety-drum,
    There you see the drummers are come.
    Some are here and some are there,
    And some are gone to the county fair.

    A buckskin fiddle and a shoestring bow
    Make the very best music you know.

    Fiddle-de-dee, fiddle-de-dee,
    The fly shall marry the bumble bee.

[Illustration]


TOM, TOM, THE PIPER’S SON

    Tom, Tom, the piper’s son,
      He learned to play when he was young,
    But all the tune that he could play,
      Was “Over the hills and far away.”

    Now Tom with his pipe did make such a noise,
      That he surely pleased both the girls and the boys,
    And they all stopped still, for to hear him play,
      “Over the hills and far away.”

    Tom with his pipe did play with such skill
      That those who heard him could never keep still;
    Whenever they heard him, they’d all begin to dance,
      Even pigs on their hind legs would after him prance.




WHY MOTHER ’PHONED TO THE POLICEMAN


At first Mother did not miss Bobby and Betty.

But after a while she wondered where they were.

She went to the door and called, “Bob-by!”

There was no answer.

Then she called, “Bet-ty!”

Still there was no answer.

Then Mother guessed what had happened.

She went to the telephone and ’phoned to the policeman.

She told him Bobby and Betty were lost.

She asked him to help find them.

“How old are your children?” asked the policeman.

“Six years old,” said Mother.

“Don’t worry, Madam,” he said. “I’ll bring the children to you.”

While the policeman was hunting for Bobby and Betty, they were going on
and on.

“I’m tired,” said Betty. “I want to go home.”

“Cheer up,” said Bobby. “Don’t cry, Betty, please. We’ll find Mother’s
house, by-and-by.”

“Do you know the way home?” asked Betty.

“I think so,” said Bobby.

But even brave Bobby soon said, “I don’t know the way.”

Just then the policeman met the children.

“Where are you going?” he asked.

“We are going home,” answered Bobby. “But we can’t find the way.”

“Come with me,” said the policeman. “I’ll show you the way.”


_For study and play_:

    I like to dance along the street
      And up and down the stairs,
    Around the stove and in the grove
      And in and out the chairs.

                           —SELECTED

    The policeman on the corner
      Wears a coat of blue.
    He blows a great big whistle
      Which says, “Too-too-too!”

        —FIRST GRADE, Riverside,
         Illinois


_Riddle_:

    My sides are firmly laced about,
    Yet nothing is within.
    You’ll think my head is strange indeed,
    Being nothing else but skin.

                                   _A drum_

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE POLICEMAN TAKES BOBBY AND BETTY HOME


Bobby and Betty were a long way from home. But the policeman knew the way.

“I’m glad we found you,” said Bobby. “I’m glad you know the way.”

“That’s funny,” said Betty. “We lost the way and we found you. And you
know the way.”

“Will you show us where Mother’s house is?” asked Bobby.

“To be sure, I will,” answered the policeman. “That is part of my
business.”

“Do you do anything else?” asked Bobby.

“Oh, yes,” answered the policeman. “I walk up and down the streets and
take care of the people.”

“Are you their father?” asked Betty. “Are you the father of all the
people on the streets?”

“Hardly that,” answered the policeman.

“I know what you are,” said Bobby. “You are a big brother. You are a big
brother to all of the people on the streets.”

“Now you have hit it, my little man,” answered the big policeman. “I try
to be a big brother to the people along the streets.”

By this time it was almost dark, but Bobby and Betty were now nearly
home.

“Do you know this street?” asked the policeman.

“Oh, yes,” cried Bobby. “We live just around the corner.”

Bobby and Betty almost ran the last few steps of the way.

They were soon at the door.

They could not wait for the policeman to ring the bell.

They opened the door and ran straight to Mother.

They threw their arms around her.

“O Bobby! O Betty!” cried Mother. “I am so glad to see you.”

Mother thanked the policeman for bringing the children home.

“You are very welcome,” said the policeman.

“Did you thank the policeman?” asked Mother.

“Thank you, thank you,” said Bobby and Betty.

“I hope we shall find you again,” said Bobby.

“I am glad you are everybody’s big brother,” said Betty.

“Thank you,” said the policeman. “But remember, your big brother thinks
you had better play nearer home.”


_For study and play_:

    I like to see the policeman,
      Who is sometimes called the cop,
    When he sees the speeding autos
      And he makes the traffic stop.

           —JEAN WOLD, JOHN JOHNSON,
            AND FREDERICK VICKERY,
            Second Grade, Hinsdale,
            Illinois

    John O’Gradgen was a wild man.
    He whipped his children now and then.
    When he whipped them, he made them dance
    Out of Ireland into France.




[Illustration]

MOTHER TALKS WITH BOBBY AND BETTY


“Tell me all about it,” said Mother.

Bobby and Betty told Mother they followed the organ-grinder. They told
her they skipped and danced to the music the organ man played.

They told her they started home when the organ man stopped playing.

They told her the big policeman came and asked them where they were going.

“Were you afraid of the policeman?” asked Mother.

“I was at first,” said Betty. “But, Mother, he is a big brother. I’m not
afraid of him now.”

“This policeman is a kind man,” said Mother. “I wish all policemen were
like him.”

“Aren’t they all big brothers?” asked Bobby.

“That is what they should be,” answered Mother. “But not all policemen
are big brothers.”

“I am glad we found the big-brother kind,” said Betty.

“So am I,” said Mother. “But tell me, children, why did you follow the
organ-grinder beyond the end of this block?”

“He played beautiful music,” said Betty. “The music pulled us along,
Mother.”

“I know,” answered Mother. “I know how music pulls you along. But my
little ones must not let music pull them away from home.”

“Next time it pulls, I’ll pull the other way,” said Bobby.

“Bobby did pull a little,” said Betty. “Next time I’ll help him and we’ll
come back to you.”

“That is right. Listen to the music when the organ-grinder is in this
block,” said Mother. “When he goes to the next block, it is time to pull
away from the music and come home to Mother.”

“I’m glad we are home now,” said Bobby.

“I wish you had been here this afternoon,” said Mother. “You can’t guess
what you missed!”

“What was it, Mother?” asked Betty.

“Mrs. White came over with some ice cream,” said Mother. “She had more
than she needed. She wanted you to have some.”

“Did you save it for us?” asked Bobby.

“I wanted to save it,” answered Mother.

“Did you save the ice cream, Mother?” asked Betty.

“I had no way to keep it, children. So I called in John and Josie, and
they ate the ice cream.”

“Oh, fudge!” said Bobby. “I wish we had come home.”

“So do I,” said Betty. “I wish we had turned back when John and Josie
did.”

“If we had turned back, we should have had the ice cream,” added Bobby.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]


_For study and play_:

All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.

Dare to say no.

    If wisdom’s ways you wisely seek,
      Five things observe with care:
    Of whom you speak, to whom you speak,
      And how, and when, and where.

Be good, sweet maid, and let who will be clever.




THE NEWSBOY


Every morning the newsboy comes with a newspaper.

He leaves it on the back porch.

Sometimes Bobby brings it in to Father.

Sometimes Betty brings it to him.

Father likes to read the paper before he goes to his work.

One morning Father said to Bobby, “Bring in the paper.”

“It hasn’t come, Daddy,” answered Bobby.

“The newsboy is late this morning,” said Father.

“He is coming now,” said Betty. “I see him.”

Bobby went out on the back porch.

The newsboy tossed a paper on the porch and ran to the next house.

Bobby took the paper to Father.

“Thank you, Bobby,” said Father.

[Illustration]

“I want to be a newsboy,” said Bobby. “Mother, may I be a newsboy?”

“What is that you are saying?” asked Father.

“I want to be a newsboy, Father,” said Bobby.

“Betty, what do you think of that?” asked Father.

“I think Bobby is too little,” said Betty. “When Bobby is bigger he can
be a newsboy.”


_For study and play_:

    Papers, papers! right this way!
    Come and buy one every day!

          —SECOND GRADE, Riverside,
           Illinois

    What’s the news of the day,
    Good neighbor, I pray?
    They say the balloon
    Has gone up to the moon.

    The newsboy comes each morning,
    When I’m out at play,
    Throws the paper on the porch,
    And then he runs away.

          —MARY MACMILLAN and WILLIAM FELDMAN,
           Second Grade, Hinsdale, Illinois


_Riddles_:

    What is it that is black and white and red (read) all over?

                                                  _A newspaper_

    Why is a cherry like a book?

                                      _Because it is red (read)_




[Illustration]

THE POSTMAN


Every day the postman comes with mail in his mail bag.

He takes mail out of the mail bag and puts it in the letter box.

He rings the bell and then goes on to the next house.

When Bobby and Betty are at the front door, the postman hands them their
mail.

When it is in the letter box, Mother lets them take the key.

They unlock the box and take out the mail.

Then one of them locks the box and the other one takes the mail in to
Mother.

One day Bobby asked, “Where does the postman get the mail?”

“At the post office,” said Mother. “The postmaster has men to sort the
mail and take it to the people.”

“Does the postmaster pay our postman?” asked Bobby.

“No, dear,” answered Mother. “Uncle Sam pays our postman.”

“Does Uncle Sam pay the postmaster?” asked Bobby.

“Yes, Bobby,” answered Mother. “Uncle Sam pays all the men who take care
of the mail.”

“Where does Uncle Sam get his money?” asked Bobby.

“This is one way he gets money for the work,” answered Mother. “Uncle
Sam sells postage stamps. Every time we buy a stamp we help Uncle Sam pay
for carrying the mail.”

“I didn’t know that before,” said Betty.

“I didn’t know it,” said Bobby.

“Some day I’ll buy a postage stamp. I’ll send a letter and help Uncle
Sam. I’ll help him pay his men who take care of the mail.”


_For study and play_:

    “Good morning, Mister Postman,
        Your bag is full I see;
    I’m looking for a letter,
        Have you anything for me?”

    “Good-morning, here’s a letter,
        And here’s a paper, too;
    I’ve others for your neighbors,
        But nothing else for you.”

                         —SELECTED

    My pot’s boiling,
    My hen’s laying.
    My cat went to bed
    With a nightcap on her head.
    It’s not you; it’s not you;
    But it’s you, you, you!


_A rime to be used with the game Drop the Handkerchief_:

    I sent a letter to my love,
    And on the way I dropped it,
    On the way I dropped it.
    I dree, dree, dropped it,
    I, I, I, lost it.
    A little boy picked it up,
    And put it in his pocket.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

HOW BOBBY AND BETTY EARNED MONEY


Bobby and Betty wanted to earn money.

They wanted to buy roller skates.

So Mother said, “Save the old newspapers. You may sell them to the
junkman.”

Bobby and Betty saved the old newspapers.

They made neat bundles.

When they had three big bundles, Mother said, “Now, children, you may
sell them.”

That very day Bobby and Betty heard the junkman calling.

“He’s coming,” cried Bobby. “The junkman is coming.”

Bobby and Betty ran to the back gate.

The junkman was driving nearer and nearer, calling, “Pa-pers! pa-pers!
Any old pa-pers to sell?”

“Yes!” shouted Bobby. “We have some old papers to sell.”

“Whoa! whoa!” called the junkman to his horses.

The horses stopped at the back gate.

The junkman jumped down from his wagon.

“This way,” said Bobby.

Bobby and Betty led the way to the back door.

“Here are the bundles,” said Bobby.

The junkman had his scales in his hand.

“Thirty pounds,” said he when he weighed the first bundle of papers.

[Illustration]

“Forty pounds,” said the junkman when he weighed the second bundle of
papers.

He then weighed the third bundle. “Thirty pounds,” he said. “One hundred
pounds. I will give you twenty-five cents.”

Bobby reached out his hand for the money.

“Have you any bottles?” asked the junkman.

“Yes,” answered Betty. “Here are twelve bottles.”

“Three cents,” said the junkman, and he handed the money to Betty.

“Anything else?” asked the junkman.

“That is all,” said Betty.

The junkman picked up his load and took it out to the wagon.

“Gid-ap!” said the junkman to his horses.

The horses started.

And again the junkman called out, “Papers! pa-pers! Any old pa-pers to
sell?”

When the junkman had gone, Betty said, “How much money do you have,
Bobby?”

“Twenty-five cents,” answered Bobby. “How much do you have?”

“Three cents,” answered Betty. “Give me some of yours.”

Bobby looked puzzled. He knew that part of the money was Betty’s. But he
did not know what to do with the twenty-five cent piece he had.

“Let me help you,” said Mother. “I’ll change the quarter. Then you and
Betty can divide your money.”

So Mother gave Bobby two dimes and five pennies for his quarter.

Then Bobby and Betty worked and worked.

At last they saw how to divide it.


_For study and play_:

    Penny and penny
    Laid up will be many.

    Who spends more than he should
    Shall not have to spend when he would.


_Riddle_:

    Runs all the day and comes home with its tongue out at night.

                                                        _A wagon_




WHAT BOBBY AND BETTY SOLD TO THE OLD-CLOTHES MAN


“See, Mother,” said Bobby. “I have fourteen cents.”

“I have fourteen cents, Mother. See!” said Betty.

“That is a nice start,” said Mother. “Put the money in your savings
banks. Then it will not get lost.”

“I want to earn more money,” said Betty.

“What can we do?” asked Bobby.

“I will tell you what to do,” said Mother. “Father has some old clothes
he doesn’t want to keep. You may sell them to the old-clothes man.”

“Good!” cried Betty.

“Hurrah!” cried Bobby.

That very day the old-clothes man came down the street.

[Illustration]

“Any old clothes to sell? Any old clothes to sell?” called the
old-clothes man.

“Yes, yes,” cried Bobby and Betty.

The old-clothes man came to the back door.

“You may sell the suit,” said Mother to Betty.

“Bobby, you may sell Father’s old shoes.”

“Any men’s clothes?” asked the old-clothes man.

“Yes,” answered Betty. “How much will you give for this suit?”

“Two dollars,” said the old-clothes man.

Betty looked at Mother.

“That is not enough,” said Betty.

“Two dollars and a half,” said the man.

Again Betty looked at Mother, and again Mother shook her head.

“Three dollars,” said the old-clothes man.

This time Mother nodded her head to Betty, and Betty said, “You may have
it.”

Then the old-clothes man gave Betty three dollars and asked, “Any men’s
shoes to sell?”

“Yes,” answered Bobby. “Here is a pair.”

The old-clothes man looked at the shoes. “Fifty cents,” he said.

Bobby looked at Mother, then said to the man, “That is not enough.”

“A dollar,” said the man.

“Take them,” said Bobby after he had looked up at Mother.

The old-clothes man gave Bobby a dollar for Father’s old shoes.

“Anything else?” asked the old-clothes man.

“Yes,” answered Betty. “Here is a pair of ladies’ shoes.”

The old-clothes man looked at the shoes and said, “Too small. Can’t use
them.”

“That is all we have to sell,” said Betty.

The old-clothes man picked up the old clothing and said, “Good day, good
day.”

“Good day,” said Mother and the children. And the old-clothes man went
away.

As soon as he had gone, Bobby said, “I have a dollar. Betty how much do
you have?”

“Three dollars,” answered Betty.

“Give me a dollar,” said Bobby. “Then we’ll each have two dollars.”

Betty looked puzzled. Then she said, “Yes, that is right. Here is a
dollar. Now you have two dollars and I have two dollars.”

“Mother, don’t we have enough to buy roller skates?” asked Bobby.

“I think you have,” answered Mother. “How much do you have in all?”

“I have two dollars and fourteen cents,” said Betty.

“That is just what I have,” said Bobby.

“I think we can get good skates for that price,” said Mother. “We will go
to the hardware store this afternoon. You may buy roller skates.”

    If I’d as much money as I could tell,
    I never would cry, “Old clothes to sell!
    Old clothes to sell! Old clothes to sell!”
    I never would cry, “Old clothes to sell!”

    Old chairs to mend! Old chairs to mend!
    If I had as much money as I could spend,
    I never would cry, “Old chairs to mend!
    Old chairs to mend! Old chairs to mend!”
    I never would cry, “Old chairs to mend!”


_For study and play_:

Have you ever been in a hardware store?

What do you have in your kitchen that was bought in a hardware store?

[Illustration]




AT THE HARDWARE STORE


“Is it time to go?” asked Bobby.

“Not quite,” answered Mother. “Is it hard to wait?”

“Yes,” answered Bobby. “I can hardly wait. I want to go to the hardware
store and buy roller skates.”

Soon Mother and the children were on the way.

When they came to the hardware store, they looked at the things in the
window.

“See!” cried Bobby. “See those roller skates! That’s the kind I want.”

“That’s the kind John and Josie have,” said Betty. “I like that kind.”

When they went in, the hardware man said, “What can I do for you today?”

“The children want to buy something,” answered Mother.

[Illustration]

“What can I show you, little boy?” asked the man. “What can I show you,
little girl?”

“Roller skates, please,” said Betty.

“I want to buy roller skates,” said Bobby.

“How do you like this skate?” asked the man.

Bobby shook his head.

“How do you like it, little girl?”

Betty shook her head.

While the hardware man was looking for others, Mother asked, “What is the
matter, Bobby? What kind do you want?”

“I want the kind where you get two skates,” said Bobby.

“I want that kind,” said Betty.

Mother bent down and whispered to Bobby and Betty. You can guess what she
said.

When the hardware man came back to them, Bobby asked, “What does a pair
like this skate cost?”

“Two dollars,” said the man.

“I’ll take a pair,” said Bobby.

“I’ll take a pair just like Bobby’s,” said Betty.

“Here is the money,” said Bobby.

“Here is the money for mine,” said Betty.

“Thank you, thank you,” said the hardware man.

While he was wrapping up the skates, Bobby said, “I have fourteen cents
left.”

“So have I,” said Betty.

“Why not put the money you have left in your savings bank?” asked Mother.

“That’s just what I’ll do,” said Bobby.

“That’s just what I’ll do,” said Betty. “I’ll keep my money in the
savings bank until I have enough for a bicycle!”

Bobby and Betty had many a good time with their roller skates.

Some other time you may like to learn what they did the next summer.

[Illustration]


_For study and play_:

          Hey ding-a-ding,
          What shall I sing?
    How many holes in a skimmer?
          Four and twenty,
          I’m feeling quite empty;
    Pray, Mama, give us some dinner.


_Riddle_:

    Round as a well, deep as a bowl,
    Long handle, little hole.

                      _A frying pan_

[Illustration]




SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS


It may be that supervisors and teachers of primary grades have been
looking for a book dealing with the occupations in the neighborhood of
a city child. The author of this book looked for such a book years ago
and found it not. So for years materials have been accumulated for the
preparation of this reader. It is hoped that all who use it will enjoy
it and gain something of value from it. If the activities recommended in
the following pages are introduced, the work is bound to prove a joy to
teachers as well as to their pupils.

_For study and play._ Each story is followed by related rimes, riddles,
and games which may be used in different ways even by children of the
same class. For instance, one child may be able to read and memorize
a rime which another child finds difficulty in reading. The latter,
however, can read parts of the rime and find familiar words and phrases,
and when he hears the rime repeated in class the jingle of the words is
likely to stay with him and aid him in his second attempt.

These old rimes and jingles are a part of the child’s social heritage.
They have come down through the centuries. It is right that every child
should become familiar with them and enjoy their humor and rhythm. Nearly
all of them are full of action. Let children use them in dramatic play;
let them make drawings to illustrate points where they discover a mental
picture.

The riddles may be learned. The answers are given, for children of the
first grade rarely guess riddles. They love them, however, and delight in
repeating them for others to guess.

_Original poems by children._ In preparing the lessons it was not
difficult to find rimes and jingles of the old trades and tradesmen,
but nothing could be found in folklore on the newer occupations such as
those of the iceman, laundryman, grocer, garbage man, policeman, and
newsboy. It did not seem well to present these occupations without some
appropriate rime, so an appeal was made to children of primary grades to
assist the author by making rimes. Among those sent in by their teachers
six were selected, credit being given in each case to the grade and
school. Although the teachers are not named, they are not forgotten.

The children who use this book can make verses and should be encouraged
to do so. Such compositions foster the creative impulse found in every
child in the pre-school period, but too often atrophied through disuse on
account of conditions and methods not yet altogether out of date in our
educational system. Attention is called to the verses on the iceman by a
third grade in Hinsdale, Illinois, as being an example of the excellent
results which come from group work. Undoubtedly no one of the children
could have composed such verses by himself. But under the impulse of a
strong emotion and through united effort they produced verses we all may
enjoy. Children of the first grade cannot be expected to produce verses
to equal these, yet it may not be impossible for them to do so; at any
rate, we all know that the youngest children sometimes produce rare
literary gems.

_Dramatic play._ Let the children dramatize these lessons, using their
own experiences with the iceman, milkman, and other workers as well
as the materials given in the text. If at first they act the story in
pantomime, let them do so. Young children have difficulty in the use
of language and can secure more rapid action by means of gestures and
pantomime. Such play develops clear mental pictures which soon find
expression in words. It is well to give children freedom in dramatic
play. Such freedom will not be abused if responsibility is placed upon
them and if an atmosphere is secured which promotes concentration. The
first plays should be very simple ones consisting of the action in one
place. Sometimes it may be the representation of Bobby and Betty talking
with their mother; again it may be at the baker’s shop, and again on the
way home. Children quickly discover the natural divisions of a play and
become interested in playing the whole story and thus finding a way of
representing different scenes in an act. The dramatic play from day to
day requires nothing in the way of costume; but, if later it seems best
to represent a more finished play, the children will enjoy planning and
making simple caps, aprons, coats, and dresses of paper or inexpensive
material for the various characters. A procession of workers will prove
interesting, each child representing one of the characters. Each one
should be asked to do something which the worker he represents might do,
whether it be the imitation of movements, an action song, or repeating an
appropriate jingle. A delightful entertainment easily grows out of the
work from day to day.

_Games._ In addition to dramatic plays children should play games. “Drop
the Handkerchief” may be played in connection with the postman; “Button,
Button, Who Has the Button?” and “The Needle’s Eye” to supplement lessons
on the dressmaker and the tailor; “Hunt the Slipper” while the children
are studying the shoemaker; “The Muffin Man” and “Jack, Jack, the Bread’s
a-Burning” in connection with the baker. “What’s Your Trade?” may be
adapted to any one of the occupations and is played as follows:

    Children divide into two groups by choosing sides or by any
    other arrangement. Children of the first group choose some
    occupation they are to act in pantomime, but do not tell the
    second group of children, for they are to guess it. When all
    are ready the two groups approach each other from opposite
    sides of the room.

    FIRST GROUP. Here we come. Here we come.

    SECOND GROUP. Where from? Where from?

    FIRST GROUP. Milwaukee. Milwaukee. (The name of any place the
    children may choose may be substituted for “Milwaukee.”)

    SECOND GROUP. What is your trade? What is your trade?

    FIRST GROUP. Watch and see. Watch and see.

    Thereupon the children of the first group imitate the movements
    of the occupation selected until some one of the second group
    guesses it. Then the second group chooses an occupation for the
    first to guess.

The teacher may modify this by letting one child act an occupation for
the class to guess. In such a case when he appears the children may
repeat:

    Here comes an old man from the wood.
    What can you do, old man?

    OLD MAN. Do anything.

    CHILDREN. Work away.

The child who has the part of the old man or the old woman, as the case
may be, imitates the movements of some occupation and the others guess it.

_Songs._ Occupation songs are dear to young children and should be used
in connection with these lessons. Examine the books accessible and make a
list of the songs of the shoemaker, baker, tailor, dressmaker, and other
workers. At odd moments many songs can thus be found. If it seems best,
enlist the coöperation of children and their parents in collecting such
songs.

Among the many books containing appropriate songs to be used in this
connection are the following:

    Elliott, J. W. _Mother Goose Melodies._
    Gaynor, Mrs. _Songs of the Child World._
      ”      ”   _Songs and Scissors._
    Gomme, Alice B. _Children’s Singing Games._ 2 vols.
    Hill, Mildred and Patty. _Song Stories for the Kindergarten._
    Hofer, Mari Ruef. _Children’s Singing Games; Old and New._ 3 vols.
    Neidlinger, W. H. _Small Songs for Small Singers._
    Poulsson, Emilie. _Holiday Songs and Everyday Songs and Games._
    Smith, Eleanor. _Songs for Little Children._
      ”       ”     _The Eleanor Smith Music Course._ Book Two.
    Tomlins, William. _The Child’s Garden of Song._
    Wiggin, Kate Douglas. _Kindergarten Chimes._

If Book Two of the _Eleanor Smith Music Course_ is at hand, teach the
children “The Fruit Vender” and “Street Sounds” when studying the banana
man, “Perrie, Merrie, Dixi” when reading “Father Tells a Story,” “Shoe
and Slipper” when studying the shoemaker, and “The Concert” in connection
with the organ-grinder. The children’s song books listed above contain
many excellent songs of the occupations.

_Construction._ Let the children use building blocks to represent the
baker’s shop with its show case and shelves where he sells his bread
and cake and pies. His kitchen, too, is of great interest to children;
if suitable arrangements can be made, take the class to visit a baker’s
kitchen. After such a visit the baker’s kitchen and oven should be
constructed; the children will doubtless find ways of making bread tins
and long wooden shovels or paddles for taking bread from the oven.

The project will not completely satisfy unless the baker himself
appears on the scene. Whether the toy baker shall be fashioned from a
clothes-pin, a piece of cornstalk, corn husks, twigs, cloth, or wood may
be left to the children, who doubtless will be pleased to include in the
dress the characteristic white coat or apron and a white cap.

The shoemaker, and in fact all the characters included in this book,
may be treated in a similar way. If something more permanent than
block-building is desired, let the children bring small dry-goods boxes
or boxes of cardboard or corrugated paper and fit them up for shops
and stores. The furniture for such toy shops can be made of blocks of
suitable size glued together, or by use of small cardboard boxes and
empty spools. Children are able to find ways and means of making such
furniture, but they should not be deprived of the opportunity of seeing
good forms made by others. At this period in the child’s life finished
workmanship is not the aim. The product is of minor importance in
comparison with the activity itself and its place in developing clear
mental images.

Let the children mark out a familiar business street in their sand
box and indicate the location of the shops and stores, which may be
represented by small boxes. Of course, it will not do to have the stores
vacant and the streets deserted. Tiny dolls may be made to represent the
people, and tiny pushcarts, wheelbarrows, milk wagons, and automobiles
for the street and alley. Larger pushcarts and wagons may be made as
separate projects from time to time, but in the one under consideration
everything must be on a small scale.

The milliner’s shop suggests the making of hats. Whether these be simple
hats for a toy milliner’s shop, dolls’ hats of flowers of the season or
other available material, or hats for Simple Simon, Colly-Molly-Puff, the
Rabbit Woman, or any other character of the book, may be determined by
the conditions when the study is made. The making of hats, caps, aprons,
and other characteristic garments of the workers to be used in dramatic
play provides another form of interesting and profitable work.

_Drawing._ Each lesson presents suitable subjects for children’s
drawings. Use these day by day and encourage children to look for
pictures in the lines they read and to put them on paper. One of the many
interesting projects in connection with the study, and one which may be
preserved in a somewhat permanent form, may be termed a group drawing of
a street showing the shops, stores, sidewalk, and street, together with
the people and vehicles. Such a group drawing may be made in sections and
later placed on the wall so as to form one large continuous picture. If
preferred, paper-cutting may be used instead of drawing, and the objects
pasted on large sheets. Such illustrations have been made by primary
classes with excellent results.

_Ethical ideas._ Children readily understand the importance of honesty
in weights and measures as well as in making change. They also know that
their mothers prefer to buy groceries of a grocer whose store is clean
and orderly and whose stock is of excellent quality. They can easily
understand that the groceryman must understand his business, know how and
what to buy as well as how to keep his stock in good order and sell it in
a businesslike way. They will be interested in learning what each of the
workers does for the community and what we as members of the community do
for each in return for his service. They will learn to respect and honor
the efficient and faithful worker and, it may be, even at this early age,
get a glimpse of why it is that some do not succeed. Ethical ideas should
not be forced upon the children, but can be brought out in their dramatic
play and other activities. In such ways teach the children the value of
cleanliness, order, intelligence, honesty, promptness, and fidelity, not
only to the worker, but to the community as a whole.

                                                         KATHARINE E. DOPP

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BOBBY AND BETTY WITH THE
WORKERS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
